Aims


Objectives (Danny) (2)


Theory (Ben) (2)
------

Z boson
 - The

Higgs



The ATLAS Experiment (Danny) (3)
--------------------



Z Boson Analysis
----------------
Overview (Ben)
 - Apply basic cuts using physical motivations (e.g. # leptons = 2 ).
 - Plot key kinematic variables to motivate/find further cuts.
 - Calculate cross section for process.
 - Estimate systematic uncertainties.

Basic initial cuts motivated by the desired end products
 - Number of end leptons = 2
 - The lepton pair has to have opposite charge
 - Both also need to have the lepton type of electron which is represented by the integer 11.

Base invariant mass plot for Z->ee

ptcone

etcone

final plot

final cuts

The same process was repeated for Z -> mumu, which resulted in a higher lower bound on the transverse momentum of 28 GeV.
We also used a tighter bound on the etcone to be between -1.6 GeV and 5.25 GeV for each lepton .


3.1 and 3.2 (Danny)
calculated cross section


3 contribuions to the uncertanty
 - Statistical = root n
 - Systematic =
 - Luminosity = Systematic uncertainty caused by
    - dominant source of uncertainty is expected to come from the knowledge of the beam profiles



3. Z boson analysis
-------------------
The first cuts were made using physical motivations.

Since the Z decays into a lepton anti lepton pair, the number of leptons need to be equal to two, the charged need to be opposite

Invariant mass
 - peak at 90 GeV corresponding to the rest mass of the Z boson
 - disagreement in lower

ptcone
 - shows the distribution of the sum of momentum around the detected lepton.
 - should expect most the be isolated
 - would expect some

etcone
 - electron shower events

tranverse momentum
 -


The background denomates below 60 GeV - this is easilty seen on the  log plot.

With a mis modelling

The same process was repeated for Z -> mumu, which resulted in a higher lower bound on the transverse momentum of 28 GeV.
We also used a tighter bound on the etcone to be between -1.6 GeV and 5.25 GeV for each lepton .


4. Higgs  (Ben)
--------------
To only select the four leptons most likely arising from a Higgs decay, 3 main cuts could be made.

The first logical cut is to only allow events with 4 leptons.

The second is to ensure the 4 leptons could have been produced by the decay of two Z boson.
Therefore, we need to ensure the 4 leptons are either two electron-positron pairs, two muon anti-muon pairs, or one electron pair and one muon pair.
Since the leptons are produced in two pairs, each pair needs to have one positive and one negative lepton of the same type.
This corresponds to the sum of the product of the charge and the lepton type equalling zero.
For example an electron positron pair would be 11 + -11 which equals 0.

The third arises from the Higgs decaying via one on-shell Z boson and one off-shell virtual Z boson.
The virtual Z boson is allowed due to quantum fluctuations which allow for violation of the energy-momentum relation momentarily.
The term "off-shell" is used to describe this Z boson because the situation does not lie on the surface of solutions to the energy-momentum equation in energy-momentum space.

This allows us to make a cut to limit us to situations where one pair of leptons correspond to the invariant mass expected by a real Z boson
and the other pair to a virtual Z boson.
Therefore, the real Z boson pair needs to be between 60 GeV and 150 GeV and and the virtual Z boson needs to be less than 60 GeV.

The sum of the product of charge and lepton type has to also be obeyed for each lepton pair considered.


(next slide)

The main sources of background was from top-anti-top quarks, Z boson decays resulting in 4 leptons, and Hardronic jets.

(next slide)

When applying these cuts the ATLAS data somewhat agrees with the Monte Carlo Simulation.
However, the predicted Higgs source monte carlo, is much less than the simulated background.


We also considered the other kinematic variables.

Due to the small amount to predicted signal, we were only able to apply a upper bound on the transverse momentum of 70 GeV.

(next slide)

After applying cuts on the isolation variables, of an upper bound of 2 GeV the background was further reduced.

(next slide)

The cross section of found to be 9.541 fb.

With the errors calculated in the same was as for the Z boson.

However, due to the small number of events, the uncertainties were relatively large.

Conclusions (Danny)

